Rework crontab usage (5.0) (#2664)
ezsystems/developer-documentation: docs/getting_started/install_ibexa_dxp.md

> For example, to check for publishing every minute, add the following script:

Author: Add something about `ibexa:scheduled:run` and about adding custom command to `ibexa:cron:run`

```
Ibexa\Bundle\Scheduler\Command\ScheduledRunCommand:
        tags:
            - { name: console.command }
            - { name: ibexa.cron.job, schedule: '* * * * *' }
```

    See the [Security checklist](security_checklist.md) for a list of security-related issues you should take care of before going live with a project.

### Schedule tasks

> The `ibexa:cron:run` command executes all service commands tagged `ibexa.cron.job`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `ibexa:cron:run` command executes all service commands tagged with `ibexa.cron.job`.
```

> It should be scheduled to run every minute using [`cron`](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cron).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use [`cron`](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cron) to run it every minute.
```

> The following example creates a temporary file with the crontab entry and appends it to the existing crontab for the web server user (`www-data`):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example creates a temporary crontab entry file and appends it to the existing crontab for the web server user (`www-data`):
```

```bash
echo '* * * * * cd <path-to-ibexa-dxp>; php bin/console ibexa:cron:run --quiet --env=prod' > ibexa_cron.txt
crontab -u www-data -l | cat - ibexa_cron.txt | crontab -u www-data -
rm ibexa_cron.txt
```

> For [Scheduled content publications]([[= user_doc =]]/content_management/schedule_publishing/), the `ibexa:scheduled:run` command is tagged with `ibexa.cron.job` and, by default, runs every minute (`* * * * *`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For [Scheduled content publications]([[= user_doc =]]/content_management/schedule_publishing/), the `ibexa:scheduled:run` command is tagged with `ibexa.cron.job` and runs every minute (`* * * * *`) by default.
```

> If needed, you can redefine this service to set up another frequency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can redefine this service to change the frequency.
```

The [CDP data export schedule](cdp_data_export_schedule.md) dynamically creates services tagged with `ibexa.cron.job`.

You can add other commands to scheduled tasks by either:

- Adding their own scheduling line to the crontab

> - Tagging their service with `ibexa.cron.job`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can add other commands to scheduled tasks in one of two ways:

- add their own scheduling line to the crontab
- tag their service with `ibexa.cron.job`
```

Author: ```suggestion
You can add other commands to scheduled tasks in one of two ways:

- add their own scheduling line to the crontab
- tag their service with `ibexa.cron.job`
```

Author: Done in f9286f8d6bd949e1918ecf1484805757f4fcc31e

#### Additional scheduled tasks and advanced usage

To use [Link manager](url_management.md), schedule the URL validation command `ibexa:check-urls`.

To [control the recent activity log size](recent_activity.md#log-retention), schedule the `ibexa:activity-log:truncate` command.

> To [re-index discounts](discounts_guide.md#discount-re-indexing), schedule the `ibexa:discounts:reindex` command (after having set Ibexa Messenger, for more information, see [Discount re-indexing configuration](configure_discounts.md#discount-re-indexing)).

Reviewer: I would add an introductory sentence and enumerate the three tasks:

```suggestion
Here are some additional tasks that require scheduling:

- To use the [Link manager](url_management.md), schedule the URL validation command `ibexa:check-urls`.
- To control the [recent activity log size](recent_activity.md#log-retention), schedule the `ibexa:activity-log:truncate` command.
- To re-index [discounts](discounts_guide.md#discount-re-indexing), schedule the `ibexa:discounts:reindex` command.

    !!! note

        You must first set up [[= product_name_base =]] Messenger.
        For more information, see [Discount re-indexing configuration](configure_discounts.md#discount-re-indexing)).
```
(Make the note's indent the same as the one of the bullet)

Author: Done in f9286f8d6bd949e1918ecf1484805757f4fcc31e

The following example schedules these commands separately:

- `ibexa:cron:run` [every minute](https://crontab.guru/every-minute)
- `ibexa:check-urls` [every week](https://crontab.guru/weekly) (on Sunday at midnight)

> - `ibexa:activity-log:truncate` [every hour](https://crontab.guru/every-hour) (at minute 0)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `ibexa:check-urls` [every week](https://crontab.guru/weekly) on Sunday at midnight
- `ibexa:activity-log:truncate` [every hour](https://crontab.guru/every-hour) at minute 0
```

> - `ibexa:discounts:reindex` [every day](https://crontab.guru/every-day) (at midnight)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `ibexa:discounts:reindex` [every day](https://crontab.guru/every-day) at midnight
```

crontab -u www-data ibexa_cron.txt
rm ibexa_cron.txt
```

The following alternative example uses service tagging to schedule these commands.
It also changes the `ibexa:scheduled:run` frequency to every five minutes.

Add the following to `config/services.yaml`:

```yaml
services:
    #…

    Ibexa\Bundle\Scheduler\Command\ScheduledRunCommand:
        tags:
            - { name: ibexa.cron.job, schedule: '*/5 * * * *' }

    Ibexa\Bundle\Core\Command\CheckURLsCommand:
        arguments:
            $urlChecker: '@Ibexa\Bundle\Core\URLChecker\URLChecker'
        tags:
            - { name: ibexa.cron.job, schedule: '0 0 * * 0', priority: -1 }

    Ibexa\Bundle\ActivityLog\Command\TruncateLogCommand:
      tags:
        - { name: ibexa.cron.job, schedule: '0 * * * *', priority: -2 }

    Ibexa\Bundle\Discounts\Command\ReIndexDiscountProductCommand:
      tags:
        - { name: ibexa.cron.job, schedule: '0 0 * * *' }
```

The `ibexa.cron.job` tag accepts the following options:

- `schedule`: A cron expression representing the period or interval.
- `options`: Arguments passed to the command. Note that `--env` and `--siteaccess` are inherited from `ibexa:cron:run`.

> - `category`: Commands can be grouped into categories, and a category can be passed with `ibexa:cron:run --category=<CATEGORY>`. By default, the `default` category is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `options`: Arguments passed to the command.
  `--env` and `--siteaccess` are inherited from `ibexa:cron:run`.
- `category`: Commands can be grouped into categories, and a category can be passed with `ibexa:cron:run --category=<CATEGORY>`.
  By default, the `default` category is used.
```

  For example, it can be used to set different jobs and `schedule` for different [SiteAccesses](multisite_configuration.md).
- `priority`: Defines the order in which `ibexa:cron:run` executes commands that are due.

> You can list the command services schedule by this tag with the following command:

Reviewer: Did you mean this?

"Run the following command to list all command services scheduled with the `ibexa.cron.job` tag:"

Author: ```suggestion
Run the following command to list all command services scheduled with the ibexa.cron.job tag:
```

```bash
php bin/console debug:container --tag=ibexa.cron.job
```

The following example shows how to set up a different schedule for a specific SiteAccess with a category.

This command schedules `ibexa:cron:run` for the SiteAccess `minor_website` and the job category `minor_website`:

```bash
(crontab -u www-data -l; echo '* * * * * cd <path-to-ibexa-dxp>; php bin/console ibexa:cron:run --quiet --env=prod --siteaccess=minor_website --category=minor_website') | crontab -u www-data -
```

> Then, `ibexa:scheduled:run` can run on this SiteAccess at a different frequency from the default:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, run `ibexa:scheduled:run` on this SiteAccess at a different frequency from the default:
```

```yaml
    Ibexa\Bundle\Scheduler\Command\ScheduledRunCommand:
        tags:
            - { name: ibexa.cron.job, schedule: '* * * * *' }
            - { name: ibexa.cron.job, schedule: '*/5 * * * *', category: 'minor_website' }
```

### Enable background tasks

> Enable Ibexa Messenger for background tasks, make sure that its [worker starts with the server](background_tasks.md#start-worker).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enable Ibexa Messenger for background tasks.
Make sure that its [worker starts with the server](background_tasks.md#start-worker).
```

> Ibexa Messenger is used at least by:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A list of processes that use [[= product_name_base =]] Messenger includes at least these two:
```

> - CDP data export, see [Ibexa Messenger support for large batches of data](cdp_data_export.md#ibexa-messenger-support-for-large-batches-of-data)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [CDP data export](cdp_data_export.md#ibexa-messenger-support-for-large-batches-of-data)
```
